# Reflection: WHAT IS A BOOK?

#### Elaina Murphy

## Changing Forms

I really enjoyed reading *The Book* by Amaranth Borsuk because it presented so many different examples of what a book has been and can become. From tablets, to scrolls, to the codex, then the ebook, and now multimedia books--I was able to gain an understanding on how each of those forms influenced the ways we think and learn today. I found the first section, 'The Book as Object' intriguing because it demonstrated how written language and the method of recording it have influenced each other since the advent of bookmaking. The strokes of Egyptian hieroglyphics made it easier to record on papyrus than clay tablets, allowing scrolls to become a widely used form for books in Egypt. However in China bamboo was common and the written language was what adapted to fit on the half inch wide strips. When both the codex and literacy became more common in the 8th century, written English adopted a lowercase hand more legible than the embellished script previously used for all manuscripts. I find this co-evolution fascinating because it's so obvious, yet something I've never thought about before. The materials available, as well as the language already established, worked in tandem to make the book what it is today.

When thinking about the changing form of the book, I also find it interesting to think about what that change means. Ultimately the codex was adopted because it was more portable, less expensive, and easier to make than its predecessors. However, there was also something lost when books began to be mass produced--artistry. Every copy of a work produced now will be exactly the same; no one is handwriting every word, or illuminating the first page. And in some ways, that's a good thing. You can buy a copy of a book and expect it to be the same as every other copy, with the same page numbers and data to reference. But can you imagine, opening the front cover of a brand new New York Times bestseller to see the first page beautifully hand painted with a design unique to *your* copy of the book. This desire for creativity and individuality is why some people scorn technology and for yearn for a 'simpler' time of typewriters and printing presses. 

The artist's book is an effort to bring creativity back into the book, in whatever form it may take. Borsuk gave numerous examples of artists creating books that are either interactive, or wordless, or huge, or some combination of these things. These artists are continuously redefining what a book is--they aren't waiting for resources or efficiency to do it for them. Borsuk describes an artist's book as something to "explore what a book can do, rather than take advantage of a particular market." In comparison to the codex, which gained popularity largely because it was easy to send to market, artist's books are popular because they are not that. The untraditional books remind people of their own uniqueness. The artist's book is a path back to the days of beautifully illuminated texts, but also a path forward--incorporating the internet and technology into a book that is distinctly 21st century.