# Reflective: INTRODUCTIONS

#### Elaina Murphy

## Content and Form

This first week really allowed me to begin thinking about what I consider a book. If you had asked me even two weeks ago how I would define a book I would of likely had a very narrow definition--something along the lines of 'an extended work produced for reading.' I really enjoyed reading Ken Liu's piece because it demonstrated how vast one's definition of a book can be. The work is titled *The Bookmaking Habits of Select Species*, implying that while most of the 'species' don't have a traditional written language, they all record their histories and ideas in books. I found the reading especially intriguing because--as the work went on--I realized that all the practices described are things humans already do, but would likely not consider bookmaking. Creating records, making decisions based on neural networks in the brain, and writing code that makes choices based on a series of questions are all methods of recording thoughts and ideas that don't involve a codex. Because of the Liu article I really enjoyed the idea someone brought up in class of the book being a bunker--a place to store things. I liked this concept that books are a place to store thoughts, ideas, and histories, and that the exact form this book takes is less important.

I was initially drawn to the idea that the content of the book is more important than the form as I've always been annoyed when people are absolutely against ebooks. Like most, I do prefer the feeling of a physical object with pages to turn as I read, but sometimes a digital book is just more practical: I can get the same content for less money or a fraction of the weight. The ebook isn't destroying reading, it's simply changing it. In our highly-digitized world, I'm sure ebooks will soon be the norm. Of course many people will be upset and nostalgic at first, but as a new generation is born they will know nothing else--the codex will be an ancient artifact to my children the same as a corded phone is to me. Therefore I identified with the idea of a book as a bunker because even if the codex dies out, the book will not.

However, that's not to say that the book as an object doesn't matter. The Leah Price and Josephine Livingston readings helped me realize that the form of the book affects the reading experience, which in turn affects the content. Not just the text, but the style, wear, and materials are important to understanding a work. These physical details give insight into the purpose of the book and how it made its way to the reader. Even reading a paperback versus a hard cover will affect your reading experience; with a hardcover you may feel the work is important and meaningful, while a paperback is a more trivial read. Livingston was so emotional when she saw the Vercelli Book and Beowulf Manuscript because she was seeing history--she was connected to all those who wrote, created, read, and thought about these works. The book as an object matters because it connects us to its past. So while I don't believe the form is what *defines* a book, I do think that it affects it. 