# Week 6 - Binding

#### Elaina Murphy

## Don't Judge a Book By Its Cover

"Don't judge a book by its cover" is a phrase everyone knows well. However, I feel that it is not as relevant of a warning as it may have been in the past. Today a cover is chosen deliberately by either the author or publisher to try to sell a codex. When browsing books it is one of the first things you notice, second to only the title. Some cover styles are characteristic to certain genres--such as fantasy and romance. Fantasy books almost always are thick works bound by covers in dark jewel tones covered in swirls and dramatic fonts featuring a hero or mythical creature. I have never been a huge fan of fantasy, so if I pull a book off a shelf and see it appears to be a fantasy book I will likely put it back. That's not to say that I would never enjoy a book with this specific cover style, but it is easy to tell immediately that it is not what I am looking for. Same for the 'airport read' romance novels (I'm not sure if there's a particular name for this genre), which are always small paperbacks with relatively simple fonts and an image of a couple right on the cover so you know what kind of book you're getting. Again, I don't particularly enjoy this type of book and can put it back immediately after seeing what's on the cover. I think the reason these two genres have such immediately recognizable bindings is because there are many people who are big fans of them. If someone likes a book and wants something similar, it is easy to decide on a book that looks like the one they just read. We do judge books by their covers because it's an easy way to gauge your interest in a book--you assume that the design was picked to reflect the story inside, so if you like the cover there's a chance you'll like the content as well.

In the reading by Dantas it's clear that he chose to bind *Fiapo* in a way that would showcase the story. And this makes sense. Why spend so much time on a work only to have it bound in such a way that turns away potential readers. Authors of artist's books have even more control over the way their work will be presented. The cover is as much a part of the book as anything else; therefore it should be cohesive with the rest of the piece. Artists have the ability to make a cover that is as much a part of their work as the content--therefore it is simply an expansion of whatever is bound within.

However, as we have discussed in class, the bindings of a book didn't used to represent the author's wishes. Books were bound by their owners in order to fit their taste; the author's opinions on the cover did not matter. In the reading by Chesnutt it was made clear that an elaborate cover does not necessarily mean that the contents inside will be equally as sumptuous. Baxter's book was so beautiful on the outside that no one even bothered to look at the inside. He took advantage of people's tendency to judge based on looks and rumors alone. Some books were curated simply to be showpieces, where the beautiful covers mattered so much more than anything within. This of course exists today as well, where those with enough money to do so may have a library just for the aesthetics. But overall, the books marketed to consumers are deliberately covered in a way that showcases what the book will offer the reader.