# Week 10 - Fabrication I: 3D Printing

#### Elaina Murphy

## Future Books

This week stretched our definitions of a book to its limits. Up until this point many of us had been willing to extend our definitions to contain less traditional literature. However, in looking at fabrication we discussed works that even the creators don't consider books. The projects from *Making Things and Drawing Boundaries* were included in a collection of maker projects, but we discussed whether the projects themselves could be considered books. Something like "Made: Technology on Affluent Leisure Time" isn't too difficult to view as book--it does have text and portrays a certain message despite being only one 'page'. However, I had a hard time reconciling the "Mic Jammer" with my definition of a book. I didn't see it as something that recorded any sort of thoughts, emotions, or a moment in the universe. Someone did make an interesting comment that the mic jammer does communicate, just in a language we don't understand. However, I still don't feel that it contains enough information for me to extend my definition of a book to include it.

*Between Bits and Atoms* discusses fabrication in a humanities context, but not necessarily in a literature or book context. The authors discussed how modern forms of fabrication--such as rapid prototyping--can be used in historical as well as artistic contexts, but didn't speak as much on the literary side. The examination of design in books focused much more on the past than then present. 

Of course that does not mean that 3D printed works can't be considered books. The 3D printed codex is obviously something that can be considered a book. It contains text and is bound in a way distinct to the book. The fact that it's pages are plastic and the words are cut out rather than printed on doesn't take away from it's inherent book qualities. The *Lincoln Life Mask* does require slightly more interpretation in order to be classified as a book. It does contain information, but not in a way that is immediately meaningful. Without knowing some background on Lincoln and his history, it's just a face. However, in conjunction with other information, it does provide an extra layer of detail to this man's life. But overall, I do see this work as much of a historical item than a book. While looking at the  *Maker Things* was an interesting demonstration of what 3D printing can do, it didn't extend my definition of a book beyond where it already was.