# Week 8 - E-Lit I

#### Elaina Murphy


A main criticism of digital literature is that it doesn't lend to as deep concentration as reading a codex does. Both the Jabr and La Farge articles argued that electronic lit isn't inherently worse, the difference has more to do with the reader's mindset and the way digital media is accessed. Sitting down with a book generally requires more purposeful effort than opening an article on your phone. When you open a book it feels like an activity--something you set aside time for--while reading on your phone is something you do between activities. This mindset is what makes people feel that e-lit is a less serious form of literature.

However, I felt differently about Bois's *What Football Will Look Like in the Future*. I was invested in the story and would sit down and open my laptop specifically to read another chapter of it. I think the distinctly book structure is what allowed me to think of it as a piece of literature, rather than something to just scroll through when bored. In our class discussion we talked about whether or not *What Football Will Look Like* is considered literature, and I feel that without a doubt it is. Literature is different than a book and personally, I feel that lit has to have a storyline and characters that transport you into another world. *What Football Will Look Like* definitely fits in this definition as it is a story, and it transports you even more deeply than a codex might. The multi media components add to its designation as literature, rather than taking away from it. 

The other criticism of e-lit is in regards to its navigability, which I feel does apply to Bois's work. I didn't like that I had no idea when the work would end. I just kept clicking 'continue' wondering if the next page would be the last. I also found it interesting that there was no way to go back a page, or skip ahead. One of my classmates said they were able to find the Table of Contents immediately, but even upon finishing the book I still couldn't locate this feature. Of course this was intended by the author, and many works of e-lit do have some sort of progress marker. However, when reading a physical codex, you always know where you are in relation to the covers and are able to orient yourself in the time frame of the story. E-lit does provide more options in that the author can choose to obscure or show the reader's position in the story if they'd like. Overall, I enjoy they variability that e-lit can provide but sometimes find literature in a codex form easier to focus and reflect on. 

