# Reflective - Zines

#### Elaina Murphy

## Finstas, The New Zine?

Today, many teenagers have finstas, or fake instagrams, so that they can share the more private details of their life with friends. In the 90's and early 2000's, young people used zines in a similar way. A way to update all your friends at once as to what you have been doing and thinking. And both media are often utilized in a wide variety of ways depending on the creator. You may talk about your deepest most personal secrets and desires, or maybe the mundane things that happen in your life, or even just funny stories and photos you want to share. No matter what the content, both zines and finstas are a form of self-expression.

However, more so than finstas, zines were also often a way for marginalized people to express ideas on less-published topics. The fact that they were created on standard sheets of paper and self-published made them an accessible form of communication in an era before the internet. Authors could write about taboo topics in a zine because they didn't need to have them approved by anyone else before sending them out. They were also made to be viewed by friends. So as long as you had friends that you trusted you could write about any topic you wanted and not worry about receiving criticism for it. One of the reasons that the *Zine Librarians Code of Ethics* exists is because of the personal and sometimes controversial information that a zine can contain, and the fact that an author may not want to share their work with the public. In the wrong hands, these publications could cause embarrassment or even danger to an author. 

Thinking about the parallels between zines and finstas had made me wonder what it is that makes young people so open to sharing about their lives. We're at the unique point in our lives where we have many of our own ideas and don't yet feel compelled to blend in with society. We often want to share these ideas, but as releasing them to the public is a big risk, we turn to the more intimate setting of zines and private accounts. The outlets themselves further the desire to share, as having a private place to share your thoughts makes it easier to do so. Therefore these cycles of expression continue (as I imagine they did in the past too, although I was unable to find any real comparisons other than daries). So while zines and finstas are very different in the forms they take, they aren't too different in the way they function. 