# Reflection: Print I

#### Elaina Murphy

## Engineering Artistry

Although we now see the printing press as more personal and artistic than the word processors we're used to, it wasn't always seen that way. The idea of mechanical reproduction must have seemed very impersonal to the people of the 15th century who were used to each book being laboriously copied by hand. We view the printing press now as more creative, as the typesetter must decide exactly how they want their type spaced and laid out. I was very drawn to the idea someone brought up in our class of engineering versus artistry. These ideas at first sound contradictory--profit and efficiency are quantifiable goals, while artistry is a much more personal achievement. However, in many ways the two concepts are essential to one another. While the printing press and computers today seem very mechanical, so much creativity must go into making such revolutionary technology. One must be artful if they're going to successfully bring together components from various sources to make a machine that will revolutionize bookmaking. Engineering is artistic in nature--how else would revolutionary technology continue to be developed.

In addition to the creativity behind engineering, it also takes creativity to use the products that have been engineered. You can't just type a paper in Word and be done with it. You still must decide on a font, size, color, layout, and other details before the work is complete. The limits of artistry are different than they are with the printing press, but they are in no way less. Computers haven't taken away our ability to be creative; but expanded it in new ways. We have more styling options than ever before and more ways in which to use them. 

The desire to return to methods such as the printing press is more likely due to technology fatigue then an actual lack of creativity in the 21st century. The reason people have returned to 'antique' items is because they're tired of technology and are looking for something different. We use computers just about every day, therefore it's refreshing to use a printing press rather than a word processor. However--as we discussed in class--it's also important to use the technology in a meaningful way. Developing projects with the intent of creating them with the printing press is very different than printing a work on the printing press because it'll look cool. Reviving technology needs to serve a purpose, as the intent is what makes a piece unique and completes the work. It's especially important to remember that no medium is inherently better or worse than others, they're simply suited to different contexts.