# Week 8 - E-Lit II

#### Elaina Murphy

## What is Literature?

This week the discussion on e-lit turned to even more unconventional forms of literature. Some of what we looked at really pushed the bounds as to what I considered literature. Technically, literature can be any written work; however, I feel that the work needs to reach a certain standard of thought-provoking literary merit. I really liked *etheric ocean*; I found it aesthetically pleasing and the sounds were essential to gaining a full experience of the story. I would qualify it as literature because of the beautiful writing it contains. Similar to how I feel about books, literature is more about the content than the form. Literature is more limited though because it must contain thoughtful, written or spoken word--while a book can capture information in any number of ways. Flores defines electronic literature as "writing-centered art that engages the expressive potential of electronic and digital media." This definition makes it clear that he thinks of e-lit as something entirely separate from literature. I don't think they are so different--e-lit is similar to literature except it has more media to play with depending on the platform. 

The Twitter bots that we looked at in class would fall within Flores conception of e-lit but not mine. While the bots can be cute, interesting, or funny; I don't think they qualify as literature. They simply don't have enough content--the tweets are made from a predetermined formula and list of words. I feel similarly about *The Deletionist*--it's kind of cool, but doesn't have enough sustenance for me to call it literature. I feel there needs to be more than words in any type of literature, there must be meaning and at least a certain level of thoughtfulness. While I can acknowledge that e-lit is different than literature, I believe that's because it has more opportunity for thoughtfulness, not less. Bringing in multimedia components allows for another layer of content and depth to be introduced. 

I enjoyed the *Electronic Literature Collection* and do think that many of the works included are literature. I looked at *PlaintextPerformance* prior to text and really enjoyed it. The work involves poetry and monologue mixed in with scrambled code and characters. The piece is presented as plaintext HTML which auto-scrolls, but appears glitchy and jumps around. These aspects give a sense that your computer is crashing, and with it some sentient part of the computer trying to call out to you. Like *First Screening* and *The Agrippa Files*, I thought *PlaintextPerformance* took advantage of the electronic aspect of the medium, while still providing a work that could be considered literature. All three works used the digital media to create unique effects but also wrote meaningful literature that was enhanced by these effects. 