# Book Project Proposal

#### Elaina Murphy

## Artistry and Engineering

1.  My book will explore the contradiction of artistry versus engineering. It will be a mechanical engineering textbook of sorts with commonly used equations, principles, and diagrams. However, unlike most engineering textbooks it will be a beautiful manuscript filled with illuminated text and diagrams as well as some of the decorative, collage aspects of zines.
2.  This will be a photo copied and handwritten, bound codex. I will make the drawings and equations first and add some decorative elements in the style of a zine, photocopy these pages, then hand illuminate each copy. 
3.  I will need to do a lot of practice illuminating text. I am pretty good at drawing designs but have never done anything in the style of an illuminated manuscript before. I will need to learn how to bind my book with a thin cardboard cover, which I believe we are doing next week. I would also love for the cover of the book to be embroidered (I was inspired by a [beautiful copy of The Wizard of Oz](https://www.huffpost.com/entry/book-cover-design-penguin-threads_n_1449012) that I have with an embossed cover that appears to be embroidered). I know how to embroider and have done work on cardboard before but working on paper will be extremely tricky and I will need to practice methods to do it. 
4.  I'll need some materials for doing the writing and illuminating such as a nice black pen, I was thinking water color pencils, a gold paint pen, and transfer paper (to make multiple similar copies of the illumination)—all of which I should be able to get at Blick. For the zine elements I can hopefully find flowers to dry and cut decorative elements out of magazines. I think I want the pages of my book to be on a slightly thicker stock paper which I can either get myself or might have access to at the Huskiana Press. I believe I have all the materials for embroidery already, I will just need a thin cardboard piece for the cover.
5.  I won’t need a lot of equipment for this project besides a photocopiers which I can use at Snell with my printing dollars.
6.  This will be an individual project so it’ll just be me working on it.
7.  My goal for this book is for it to have around 15 pages and 5 copies. All 5 should be similar but obviously won’t be exactly the same since I’m doing it by hand. Each page should be detailed and neatly done with both engineering diagrams/equations, illumination, and collage elements. The finished book will be polished and clean looking and give an overall impression that care has been taken to create it. 
